# cardiovascular-Risk-Predection

The dataset is from an ongoing cardiovascular study on residents of the town of Framingham, Massachusetts. The classification goal is to predict whether the patient has a 10-year risk of future coronary heart disease (CHD). The dataset provides the patients' information. It includes over 4,000 records and 15 attributes. Each attribute is a potential risk factor. There are both demographic, behavioral, and medical risk factors. we have got single CSV file as an input.
we loaded a file using the pandas read csv function. The given data set contains 3390 rows and 17 columns. then we checked missing/null values.  By data wrangling, we find our data set contains a total of 3390 entries out of these 1923 are female and 1467 are males. total age range between 32 to 70, out of 1923 females 1147 females do not smoke and 776 females do smoke. out of 1467 males, 556 males do not smoke and 911 males do smoke. as per the data provided 2879 People have 10 years of risk of CHD disease, and 511 People do have not 10 years of risk of CHD disease. all these are columns data set overview. then we did a visualization of the processed data. we did hypothesize testing on some conclusions.  for hypothesis, we choose the Z test i.e. When the variances are known and the sample size is high, a z-test is a statistical test to assess if two population means are different. A hypothesis test known as a z-test is one in which the z-statistic has a normal distribution. A z-statistic, also known as a z-score, is a numerical representation of the outcome of a z-test. then we did feature engineering on our data set.
we have handled missing values, replaced the null value with the mean or median, and after that, we looked for outliers. as we see the result our data contain so many outliers.
we did treatment to remove outliers. for minimizing outliers we used the capping method, also known as the Winsorization method. Winsorization is a common technique for removing noise in experiment results, specifically from outliers.
Winsorization refers to the practice of measuring the percentile Px of a metric and setting all values over Px to Px. At Statsig, the default percentile for winsorization is 99.9%. This reduces the influence of extreme outliers caused by factors such as logging errors or bad actors. then we did categorically encoding by astype() method is used to cast a pandas object to a specified dtype. astype() function also provides the capability to convert any suitable existing column to a categorical type. DataFrame. astype() function comes very handy when we want to case a particular column data type to another data type, Feature Scaling is a technique to standardize the independent features present in the data in a fixed range. It is performed during the data pre-processing to handle highly varying magnitudes or values or units. If feature scaling is not done, then a machine learning algorithm tends to weigh greater values, and higher and consider smaller values as the lower values, regardless of the unit of the values. Min-Max Normalization: This technique re-scales a feature or observation value with a distribution value between 0 and 1. at the end we implement our model.
GridSearchCV is the process of performing hyperparameter tuning in order to determine the optimal values for a given model. As mentioned above, the performance of a model significantly depends on the value of hyperparameters. Note that there is no way to know in advance the best values for hyperparameters so ideally, we need to try all possible values to know the optimal values. Doing this manually could take a considerable amount of time and resources and thus we use GridSearchCV to automate the tuning of hyperparameters.
